









Autodistill uses big, slower foundation models to train small, faster supervised models. Using autodistill, you can go from unlabeled images to inference on a custom model running at the edge with no human intervention in between.





Here are example predictions of a Target Model detecting milk bottles and bottlecaps after being trained on an auto-labeled dataset using Autodistill (see the Autodistill YouTube video for a full walkthrough):





To use autodistill, you input unlabeled data into a Base Model which uses an Ontology to label a Dataset that is used to train a Target Model which outputs a Distilled Model fine-tuned to perform a specific Task.





Autodistill defines several basic primitives:
Human labeling is one of the biggest barriers to broad adoption of computer vision. It can take thousands of hours to craft a dataset suitable for training a production model. The process of distillation for training supervised models is not new, in fact, traditional human labeling is just another form of distillation from an extremely capable Base Model (the human brain 🧠).
Foundation models know a lot about a lot, but for production we need models that know a lot about a little.
As foundation models get better and better they will increasingly be able to augment or replace humans in the labeling process. We need tools for steering, utilizing, and comparing these models. Additionally, these foundation models are big, expensive, and often gated behind private APIs. For many production use-cases, we need models that can run cheaply and in realtime at the edge.





Autodistill's Base Models can already create datasets for many common use-cases (and through creative prompting and few-shotting we can expand their utility to many more), but they're not perfect yet. There's still a lot of work to do; this is just the beginning and we'd love your help testing and expanding the capabilities of the system!
Autodistill is modular. You'll need to install the autodistill package (which defines the interfaces for the above concepts) along with Base Model and Target Model plugins (which implement specific models).
By packaging these separately as plugins, dependency and licensing incompatibilities are minimized and new models can be implemented and maintained by anyone.
Example: 
pip install autodistill autodistill-grounded-sam autodistill-yolov8

Additional Base and Target models are enumerated below.


Autodistill: Train YOLOv8 with ZERO Annotations
Published: 8 June 2023
In this video, we will show you how to use a new library to train a YOLOv8 model to detect bottles moving on a conveyor line. Yes, that's right - zero annotation hours are required! We dive deep into Autodistill's functionality, covering topics from setting up your Python environment and preparing your images, to the thrilling automatic annotation of images. 
Apart from adding new models, there are several areas we plan to explore with autodistill including:
We love your input! Please see our contributing guide to get started. Thank you 🙏 to all our contributors!
The autodistill package is licensed under an Apache 2.0. Each Base or Target model plugin may use its own license corresponding with the license of its underlying model. Please refer to the license in each plugin repo for more information.
This error is caused when PyTorch cannot load the model weights for a model. Go into the ~/.cache/autodistill directory and delete the folder associated with the model you are trying to load. Then, run your code again. The model weights will be downloaded from scratch. Leave the installation process uninterrupted.

